---
createdAt: 2021-10-13T14:20:07.969Z
title: A CALL TO ARMS
description: "Midweek Bible Study: Put on the whole armor of God series of Bible Study."
---
Text: Ephesians 6:11-18

11. Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.
12. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places.
13. Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand.
14. Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness;
15. And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace;
16. Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.
17. And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God:
18. Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints;

**BACKGROUND OF THE STUDY**\
From the beginning of time, every natural battle that has been fought has always a purpose for which it was waged. It is important for us to understand the purpose of spiritual warfare. 

I. INTRODUCTION\
II. TERMINOLOGY USED FOR SPIRITUAL WARFARE. - Eph. 6:11-18\
III. PREPARATION IS A MUST.\
IV. STRATEGY. - Luke 14:31\
V. A CALL TO ARMS

In Old Testament times, a trumpet was used to summon God's people to the battle. Today, a spiritual summon is sounding throughout the Nation of the world. It is summon to the invisible war. It is a call to arms!

A Call to Arms is a summons, invitation, or appeal to undertake a particular course of action.\
\
Watch on Facebook:

<https://fb.watch/8HWSKYtuEZ/>