---
createdAt: 2021-10-14T08:20:39.545Z
title: Obedience
description: Mid-week Discipleship Class
---
“And Samuel said, Hath the LORD as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the LORD? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams.” - **I Samuel 15:22**

Start with the Scriptures

• Deuteronomy 28

• Joshua 24:24

• Isaiah 1:19-20

• Matthew 7:21

• Philippians 2:8

• Hebrews 5:8; 13:17

A truck drives through a picket line, and several striking workers are injured; a teenager attempts to choke his teacher in front of the class, and has to be pulled away; a sit-in promoting civil disobedience is broken up near a nuclear plant only after a number of the demonstrators are literally carried off by the police.\
\
These and other incidents are indicators of a growing trend within our modern society. People are willing to flaunt the law and to become publicly violent to espouse a cause of their own choosing. The civil disorder continues to mount in intensity even as police officers and public officials search for answers.

In the midst of all this lawlessness and irresponsibility by ordinary citizens, the Christian church is challenged to take a stand. Since the Bible is specific on the matter of authority and also says much about a believer’s attitude toward it, the time has come for plain and straightforward teaching on the subject of obedience.

**The Source of Authority**

**The source of all authority is God Himself**. There should be no question but that the Scriptures teach this principle. With God there is a complete and unrestricted right of action. “But I will forewarn you whom ye shall fear: Fear him, which after he hath killed hath power \[The marginal reading of the Revised Version says ‘authority’] to cast into hell; yea, I say unto you, Fear him” (Luke 12:5). Instructing His disciples just before the Ascension, Jesus stated, “It is not for you to become acquainted with and know what time brings—the things and events of time and their definite periods—fixed years and seasons (their critical nick of time), which the Father has appointed (fixed and reserved) by His own choice and authority and personal power” (Acts 1:7, The Amplified Bible).\
**Satan has failed in his attempts to usurp the authority of the Almighty**. He failed miserably with his original rebellion and with the temptation of Christ in the wilderness. Moreover, a smashing defeat was suffered by Satan at Calvary. The power of sin had brought mankind under the bondage of the devil, but Christ, through His sinless life and sacrificial death on the cross, provided a way of deliverance to every believer. (See Romans 7:23; II Timothy 2:26.)\
**Although a defeated foe, Satan is still very active in promoting his own kingdom**. His purpose today is to cause confusion and anarchy, both in the secular world and in the church world. The lawless, rebellious actions of mankind can be attributed to sin. God, on the other hand, has ordained that there should be recognition of authority in every level of man’s life. “For there is no power but of God: the powers that be are ordained of God. Whosoever therefore resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinances of God: and they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation” (Romans 13:1-2). (See also I Peter 2:13-15.)

**All government, civil or spiritual, is delegated by God**. In His wisdom the Lord has ordained that human government be established for the preservation of law and order. There are constant reminders throughout the Bible that rulers are responsible to God to uphold the righteous and to punish the criminal. Nebuchadnezzar of Daniel’s day had to learn “that the most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to whomsoever he will” (Daniel 4:25). This is not to say that the majority of those who have authority recognize God or even are worthy of the positions which they hold. The opposite too frequently seems to be the case. But the Scriptures are clear regarding our attitude toward human authority and the laws of the land.\
\
**The Christian simply needs to remember that his first allegiance is to God**. Where a lower law would direct a believer to do wrong, he must always obey the higher law of God. When the Sanhedrin commanded them not to teach in the name of Jesus, Peter and the other apostles replied, “We ought to obey God rather than men” (Acts 5:29).\
\
**What Is Obedience?**


In the Bible obedience is the positive and active response which one shows towards what he hears. “To hear” God’s Word requires a compliance with that Word, an obedience to the spoken commandment.
In the Old Testament obedience toward God was encouraged because there were distinct advantages in following that course. Moses told the nation of Israel, “If thou shalt hearken diligently unto the voice of the LORD thy God, to observe and to do all his commandments which I command thee this day, that the LORD thy God will set thee on high above all nations of the earth” (Deuteronomy 28:1).
The advantages of obedience promised to Israel were tremendous, including blessings in the city and in the fields, healthy offspring, plentiful harvests, an increase of cattle and flocks, and victory over all enemies. On the other hand, disobedience brought the anger of God, and all the blessings turned into curses. “And thou shalt become an astonishment, a proverb, and a byword, among all nations whither the Lord shall lead thee” (Deuteronomy 28:37).
In the New Testament dispensation obedience is based primarily on a love for Christ. Paul the apostle declared, “The love of Christ constraineth us” (II Corinthians 5:14). The compelling force of love meets all the requirements of the law and the prophets.
Obedience is walking in the Spirit. It is an active participation in the things of God. In recounting his experience of preaching to Cornelius and his household, Peter affirmed, “The Spirit bade me go . . . nothing doubting” (Acts 11:12). Often the Spirit leads us into fresh, new areas of service which challenge our faith. For Peter the idea of preaching to the Gentiles was revolutionary, but there was no denying the witness of the Spirit. He explained later to the Jewish Christians, “As I began to speak, the Holy Ghost fell on them, as on us at the beginning” (Acts 11:15).
God purposely leads us into avenues that are inexplicable by pure natural reasoning. What things seem to be highly improbable, if not impossible, are accomplished through obedience to God’s Word. Unbelievers may shake their heads at our steps of faith, but Jesus stated that the Good Shepherd “calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out” (John 10:3). The walk of faith is simply that; it is neither a breathless run, nor is it a marking of time. The spiritual walk is a stepping out by faith on the great promises of God.
The clearest proof of faith towards God is obedience. “Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams” (I Samuel 15:22). While some people who profess Christianity seem content to pay lip service to God, the Scriptures insist that we obey His Word.
The Flood that destroyed the rest of the world would surely have destroyed Noah and his family, but that one man obeyed God. Noah “being warned of God of things not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house” (Hebrews 11:7). In respect to the ark, God was particular, demanding that the structure be made of gopher wood, that it have three levels and that it have one door. Any tampering with the plan would have brought certain disaster to Noah and his family.